introduction.rst, before:

Introduction
============

The purpose of this document is to improve safety of CanberraUAV.

.. things in our environment
   relationships between those things
   business entities; processes and services (that depend on the things)
   impacts between things and business entities (and relationships?)
   when a process needs to know what's going on, check the single logical understanding / source of truth for the environment.

It's written "aspirationally" as though some software called UASFunPolice exists, however that's vapourware at this stage. In reality, the first iteration will be the simplest bodgy hack we can get away with (using existing systems), with a plan to improve iteratively from there...

Unmaned Aerial Systems (UAS) comprise some obvious hardware components like Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and physical components of the ground-segment, such as Ground Control Stations (GCSs). They also involve soft operational components, such as procedures, checklists and documention. Perhaps less obviously, they also involve soft management components, such as legal regulation, range safety rules, organisation policies, certifications, etc.

The most important management component of any aviation operation is it's Safety Management System (SMS). The purpose of these Safety Management Tools for Unmanned Aerial Systems (UASFunPolice) is to enable UAS operators to administer their own SMS to a standard that is comparable with manned aviation.

UASFunPolice is free (open source) software released under the Gnu Public Licence. The development team is engaged UAS Research and Development (R&D) for of Search and Rescue (SAR) applications. Despite our narrow focus, we hope that wider group of aviatiors might find these tools useful.

Commit message:

introduction.rst: cross reference github site

introduction.rst, after:

Introduction
============

The purpose of this document is to improve safety of CanberraUAV.

It is a living document, hosted at https://github.com/monkeypants/UASFunPolice/ . Pull requests are welcome, as are comments/issues/suggestions through the github ticket system. 

.. things in our environment
   relationships between those things
   business entities; processes and services (that depend on the things)
   impacts between things and business entities (and relationships?)
   when a process needs to know what's going on, check the single logical understanding / source of truth for the environment.

It's written "aspirationally" as though some software called UASFunPolice exists, however that's vapourware at this stage. In reality, the first iteration will be the simplest bodgy hack we can get away with (using existing systems), with a plan to improve iteratively from there...

Unmaned Aerial Systems (UAS) comprise some obvious hardware components like Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and physical components of the ground-segment, such as Ground Control Stations (GCSs). They also involve soft operational components, such as procedures, checklists and documention. Perhaps less obviously, they also involve soft management components, such as legal regulation, range safety rules, organisation policies, certifications, etc.

The most important management component of any aviation operation is it's Safety Management System (SMS). The purpose of these Safety Management Tools for Unmanned Aerial Systems (UASFunPolice) is to enable UAS operators to administer their own SMS to a standard that is comparable with manned aviation.

UASFunPolice is free (open source) software released under the Gnu Public Licence. The development team is engaged UAS Research and Development (R&D) for of Search and Rescue (SAR) applications. Despite our narrow focus, we hope that wider group of aviatiors might find these tools useful.
